“Success is going from failure to failure without losing your enthusiasm.” – Winston Churchill

“If you can dream it, you can achieve it.” – Zig Ziglar

“The only way to do great work is to love what you do.” – Steve Jobs

“Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.” – Benjamin Franklin

“When everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it.” – Henry Ford

“Life is what we make it, always has been, always will be.” – Grandma Moses

“You may be disappointed if you fail, but you are doomed if you don’t try.” – Beverly Sills

“Dream big and dare to fail.” – Norman Vaughan

“It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.” – Confucius

“Build your own dreams, or someone else will hire you to build theirs.” – Farrah Gray

“I would rather die of passion than of boredom.” – Vincent van Gogh

“I didn’t fail the test. I just found 100 ways to do it wrong.” – Benjamin Franklin

“Limitations live only in our minds. But if we use our imaginations, our possibilities become limitless.” – Jamie Paolinetti

“Challenges are what make life interesting and overcoming them is what makes life meaningful.” – Joshua J. Marine

“Too many of us are not living our dreams because we are living our fears.” – Les Brown

“If the wind will not serve, take to the oars.” – Latin Proverb

“If you’re offered a seat on a rocket ship, don’t ask what seat! Just get on.” – Sheryl Sandberg

“Happiness is not something readymade. It comes from your own actions.” – Dalai Lama

“When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be.” – Lao Tzu

“Everything has beauty, but not everyone can see.” – Confucius

“Few things can help an individual more than to place responsibility on him, and to let him know that you trust him.” – Booker T. Washington

“There is only one way to avoid criticism: do nothing, say nothing, and be nothing.” – Aristotle

“The best revenge is massive success.” – Frank Sinatra

“Either you run the day, or the day runs you.” – Jim Rohn

“Winning isn’t everything, but wanting to win is.” – Vince Lombardi

“Your time is limited, so don’t waste it living someone else’s life.” – Steve Jobs

“Life is what happens to you while you’re busy making other plans.” – John Lennon

“Just know, when you truly want success, you’ll never give up on it. No matter how bad the situation may get.” – Unknown

“I don’t regret the things I’ve done, I regret the things I didn’t do when I had the chance.” – Unknown

“Happiness cannot be traveled to, owned, earned, or worn. It is the spiritual experience of living every minute with love, grace & gratitude.” – Denis Waitley

“I am thankful for all of those who said NO to me. Its because of them I’m doing it myself.” – Albert Einstein

“Don’t worry about failures, worry about the chances you miss when you don’t even try.” – Jack Canfield

“Nobody ever wrote down a plan to be broke, fat, lazy, or stupid. Those things are what happen when you don’t have a plan.” – Larry Winget

“Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending.” – Carl Bard

“I don’t regret the things I’ve done, I regret the things I didn’t do – Lucas ( Rory Cochrane, Empire Records)

“Never give up on something that you can’t go a day without thinking about.” – Unknown

“When you feel like giving up, remember why you held on for so long in the first place.” – Unknown

“Always be a first-rate version of yourself, instead of a second-rate version of somebody else.” – Judy Garland

“What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.” – Henry S. Haskins

“Challenge yourself with something you know you could never do, and what you’ll find is that you can overcome anything.” – Unknown

“It is never too late to be what you might have been.” – George Eliot

“All our dreams can come true–if we have the courage to pursue them.” – Walt Disney

“The best way to predict the future is to invent it.” – Alan Kay

“If you cannot do great things, do small things in a great way.” – Napoleon Hill

“An obstacle is often a stepping stone.” – William Prescott

“You make a living by what you get; you make a life by what you give.” – Winston Churchill

“The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.” – Lao Tzu

“What you do speaks so loudly that I cannot hear what you say.” – Ralph Waldo Emerson

“You must be the change you wish to see in the world.” – Gandhi

“Tough times never last, but tough people do.” – Dr. Robert Schuller
 
“Keep your face to the sunshine and you can never see the shadow.” – Helen Keller

“The best way out is always through.” – Robert Frost

“Make each day your masterpiece.” – John Wooden

“The best dreams happen when you’re awake.” – Cherie Gilderbloom

“Don’t count the days, make the days count.” – Muhammad Ali

“The difference between ordinary and extraordinary is that little extra.” – Jimmy Johnson

“You must not only aim right, but draw the bow with all your might.” – Henry David Thoreau

“Even if you’re on the right track, you’ll get run over if you just sit there.” – Will Rogers

“Every strike brings me closer to the next home run.” – Babe Ruth

“Don’t wait. The time will never be just right.” – Napoleon Hill

“A year from now you may wish you had started today.” – Karen Lamb

“It is never too late to be what you might have been.” – George Eliot

“If there is no struggle, there is no progress.” – Frederick Douglass

“What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do.” – Tim Ferriss

“The more I want to get something done, the less I call it work.” – Richard Bach

“Your imagination is your preview of life’s coming attractions.” – Albert Einstein

“Do what you love and the money will follow.” – Marsha Sinetar

“The harder I work, the luckier I get.” – Gary Player

“Even if you fall on your face, you’re still moving forward.” – Victor Kiam

“The purpose of our lives is to be happy.” – Dalai Lama

“The dreamers are the saviors of the world.” – James Allen

“Obsessed is just a word the lazy use to describe the dedicated.” – Russell Warren

“Someday is not a day of the week.” – Denise Brennan-Nelson

“If you can’t outplay them, outwork them.” – Ben Hogan

“Champions keep playing until they get it right.” – Billie Jean King

“Change your thoughts and you change your world.” – Norman Vincent Peale

“Action is the foundational key to all success – Pablo Picasso

“I will go anywhere as long as it is forward.” – David Livingston

“If you aren’t going all the way, why go at all? – Joe Namath

“Just keep going. Everybody gets better if they keep at it.” – Ted Williams

“Don’t wish it were easier, wish you were better.” – Jim Rohn

“The creation of a thousand forests is in one acorn.” – Ralph Waldo Emerson

“It wasn’t raining when Noah built the ark.” – Howard Ruff

“Never let your memories be greater than your dreams.” – Doug Ivester

“If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them.” – Henry David Thoreau

“There are two primary choices in life: to accept conditions as they exist, or accept the responsibility for changing them.” – Denis Waitley

“We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.” – Aristotle

“The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can alter his life by altering the attitudes of his mind.” – William James

“In three words I can sum up everything I’ve learned about life: It goes on.” – Robert Frost

“The aim of an argument or discussion should not be victory, but progress.” – Joseph Joubert

“Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.” – T.S. Eliot

“To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.” – Oscar Wilde

“Freedom is not the absence of commitments, but the ability to choose yours.” – Paulo Coelho

“Conformity is the jailer of freedom and the enemy of growth.” – John F. Kennedy

“I am tomorrow, or some future day, what I establish today. I am today what I established yesterday or some previous day.” – James Joyce

“It’s time to start living the life you’ve imagined – Henry James

“Every man dies. Not every man really lives.” – William Wallace

“Don’t be pushed by your problems. Be led by your dreams.” – Ralph Waldo Emerson

“Action is the foundational key to all success.” – Pablo Picasso

“Nothing important was ever achieved without someone taking a chance.” – H. Jackson Brown, Jr